we begin in the ha where Germany has
been accused of aiding and abetting
genocide in Gaza in a case before the
un's top Court it was brought by
Nicaragua and calls for emergency
measures to stop Germany from selling
weapons to Israel it also wants Berlin
to restore funding to the un's agency
for Palestinian refugees unra more than
33,000 Palestinians have been killed in
Gaza in six months of bombardment nearly
half of them children
if the actions of Israel continue
unrestrained as they have since its
birth as a state and they continue to
receive the indiscriminate support of
States like Germany then a new
generation of Palestinians will rise up
again in the near future and we will
hear a future Secretary General
conventing this did not happen in
AUM the case before the court is an
opportunity to break this vicious cycle
without support of States like Germany
Israel would not feel they can act with
totally imp Unity Nicaragua is hopeful
that states particularly with the
history of Germany will he heed the
decisions of this
court our correspondent step vasson
joins us now live from the ha step
Nicaragua spent two hours this morning
making its case to the court you were
there listening to all of it what else
did we hear from its
Representatives well it's been a very
uncomfortable morning for Germany here
at the highest court in the he 80 years
is uh after the Holocaust and although
Germany hasn't been directly involved in
the war in GA in Gaza Nicaragua says it
has been facilitating genocide by
sending weapons and instead it has an
obligation uh to prevent genocide
because it's a signatory to the genocide
convention but what Germany did instead
it has increased uh the sales of weapons
to Israel tfold uh compared to 2022
especially after October 7 and also
Nicaragua argued
this that Germany is citing for its
commitment to Israel which is
unconditional because of what happened
in the past because of what happened
during the Holocaust is misleading
because naraga says it's about Israel
and that's a different thing than
talking about the Jews and he also said
that in that Germany is making a lot of
money selling these weapons and the arms
facturers are making real profits right
now and that's also something one member
of the legal team uh David Müller
actually said Daniel Müller sorry during
the
trial this includes export licenses for
weapons of war in the value of 20 mil
million EUR such as 3,000 anti-tank
weapons which according to one
manufacturer in Germany are a complete
toolbox of shoulder lounged infantry
weapons used against tanks
but also
Vehicles structures and buildings and
persons 5 100,000 rounds of machine gun
ammunition 44 propellant charges a key
component in artillery ammunition and
239 IGN ignition
charges and the German news magazine
dagel revealed information about plans
of the German government to deliver tank
ammunition from the stocks of the German
Armed
Forces well tomorrow Germany will have
it its chance to respond to the
allegations uh tomorrow Germany will
have its chance to uh respond to the
allegations uh with its highest legal
advisor to the foreign Ministry uh and
but it already came out this afternoon
saying that all the allegations made by
Nicaragua are grossly biased it's going
to be a very interesting test case for
international Justice because the two
countries Nicaragua and Germany are not
directly involved in the war in Gaza so
it's an unprecedented case so legal
experts around the world are really
following this and we will hear uh if a
ruling will be made on provisional
measures Nicaragua has asked for in the
next coming weeks okay step many thanks
for bringing us up speed on all the
events that have been happening there at
the ha at the international court of
justice this morning well lawyer and
diplomat Tanya Von AA Glon is
representing Germany before the icj and
she says that the government is
upholding international
law Germany rejects the allegations made
by Nicaragua today Germany does not and
never did violate the genocide
convention nor International
humanitarian law nether directly nor
indirectly on the contrary Germany's
committed to the uphold of international
law and this is what work for
internationally we will tomorrow present
our position in detail to this
court so much I can already tell you
today Nicaragua's presentation was
grossly biased and we will be telling
you tomorrow how we fully live up to our
responsibilities our correspondent in
Berlin Dominic Kane joins us now live
and Dominic Germany is saying that it's
been misrepresented by Nicaragua in
court today is that the general feeling
in inside
Germany the thing to point out here is
that the government's reaction that
we've been hearing there has been being
put out for several days now certainly
on Friday the foreign office spokes
people were saying effectively what we
just heard there this idea that they
really have no truck with the case
that's being brought forward that that
puts them in the frame as it were there
is no question that this issue is div
dividing opinion in this country on the
one side you have people who say that
they can't understand why the German
government takes the position it does
Visa Israel in a more General sense
about the support that it offers to the
state of Israel about the protections
that it puts in place for the state of
Israel and then on the other sides of
this debate you have people who say well
actually no it is important for Germany
to recognize its cultural and historical
responsibility in this situation and to
be protective of the state of Israel and
its right to exist that certainly is
something which government ministers and
many different people in in the
government's infrastructure as it were
have adhered to going back many years
many decades even there is opposition
isn't there in Germany what are we
actually seeing uh manifest itself in in
opposition to the government support of
Israel
well this is where it becomes more uh as
it were a matter of conjecture because
there has been certainly over the course
of the last 12 hours 24 hours or so a
statement put out by what is claimed to
be several hundred German civil servants
none of whom is prepared to
metaphorically put their heads over the
parapet and go public with their name
and their face but have put out a
statement which calls on the German
government to disassociate itself from
its policy thus far regarding Israel to
remind to remember its commitments to
Justice to the humanitarian cause around
the world that sort of thing and in
doing that what they are doing as it
were is continuing something that has
had a head of steam as it were building
up over the course of the last few
months from other civil servants around
the European Union and Beyond certainly
in the United Kingdom as well who in the
course of the last few months have put
out statements again under the cloak of
anonymity saying that governments in the
west should be much more mindful of what
they are doing and the effect of the
policies the effect the policies that
they are maintaining in so far as Israel
concerned is actually having on the
ground in Gaza but it is worth making
the point there is this opposition but
it is coming from people who are using
the shield of anonymity in order to put
out their point of point of view okay
Dominic Kan bringing us the view there
from Berlin thanks very much Dominic